Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes today. I'm talking
with Aria had ironed. He's
a technologist who is running
the engineering team at shape
security. How are you? God?
How are you? Thanks for
asking me. I'm thrilled. We've
been trying to get together
now for three years on
the show, but our schedules
have not lined up and
today they did. All right.
Perfect. Yeah. I first learned
about you when I was
doing web automation and I
started playing with Phantom JS.
How long ago did you
work on that? And the
loss? My handiwork started about
seven years ago and I
think I announced it about
a Christmas 20 somethings 2011.
It's been in the process
for awhile, but I didn't
have time to Polish it
new listen to the world.
And finally, I had time
back then, man, it worked
out. So it was a
popular tool back then for
what proclamation is less popular
these days. And there's a
lot of other alternative, better
alternative development kind of slowed
down a little bit, but
it had this run. Why
do you think it was
so popular? Was it just
because it was the idea
that something headless would be
valuable? I mean, I had
done selenium testing before, but
of course that required a
browser. Yes. I think that
was one of the major
key point. You can just
download an executable pretty much
self contained and you hit
the ground running. So back
then it's quite a hassle
to set up. So I
knew much, much easier these
days. And I think that
makes it a sort of
alternative easy choice to do
web automation besides driving the
true Grasser of course. Right,
right. And now is seven
years in it's quite popular.
Of course, the 20 plus
thousand stars on, on a
get hub. But as you
said, it's, it's winding down,
perhaps it's in a maintenance
mode. I think it's sort
of the victim of it.
It's unsuccess so there's only
very few following work happening
right now, but since it
was popular for a while,
there's a massive expectation of
what it should do, how
the future should be implemented,
what should be the should
be in the next release
and so on and so
forth. So there's a huge
mismatch between the fallen team,
volunteering work happening for the
development for sues the expectation
From the wild audience out
there. And it's sort of
typical problem in successful open
source project. That's, that's an
interesting point as a successful
open source project, I assume
that you had all of
the experiences that any organizer
has, which is people expecting
a lot of free work.
That is true. So interesting
story. For instance, one time
I COVID package new release
and start building it for
some platform Linux and mango
ass. And I decided, okay,
let me take a breath
on me. Let me get
some sleep for tomorrow morning.
I'll continue. And both the
executable for windows the next
morning, lo and behold, the
first email was whereas windows.
So I couldn't even imagine
that someone is that hurry.
And of course it's in,
in the beginning, I took
it personally. But at the
end of the day, I
know that this is the
expectation that people want from
such projects. Hmm. Did you
have anger or people yelling
at you or people who
not only wanted free work,
but also demanded support and
Sunday at two in the
morning? Huh? I think every
open source project mentoring is
bound to experience all kinds
of insults, but I use
that as an opportunity to
grow my skin and becomes
thicker over time. I used
to joke that if you
want a free anger management
course just meant an open
source project. Did that ever
get you a feeling like
you wanted to rage quit
Sometimes, but they don't at
the end of the day.
What counts is that? First
of all, it's impossible to
please everyone. Anyway. So if
you tried that you will
fail no matter what, but
at the end of the
day, what counts is, as
long as there are people
benefiting from my work, whatever
it is, whether it's Phantom.
Lot of the other projects
that I maintain, I think
that's enough for me. I
think that the motivation is
not to get fame and
glory, but the motivation is
to do a full entering
work. And this is similar
to, you know, you package
some care package or sandwich
for, for some unfortunate, less
fortunate people. And, and you,
you feel that you couldn't
do enough and that's okay.
As long as you, you
you've done your part and
people are happy and, and
you feel good. I think
that should be the main
motivation not to seek fame
or glory or anything else.
That seems like an extremely
healthy attitude. I see a
lot of people becoming very
angry at opensource and very
angry, angry at the time,
the, the sense of being
it, being thankless work. How
much of it do you
think is attitude? It's scarf
becoming like that. I think
it's, it's just natural. It's
human nature to demand more.
And sometime you, as a
maintainer, you try to provide
as much surface as possible.
But for, for the other
end, because they haven't seen
that you actually need to
work. You, you need to
have a day job. You
need to take care of
your family. You need to
take care of your pants.
You have add friends. They
don't see that. So they,
they assume that, Oh, because
you released this project for
free, then that's all you
do. You, you have nothing
else in your life. So
it's in one way, it's
unfair to expect any maintainer
to work long hours to
release features or to work
on feature for, for the
projects at the same time.
If you encounter, if you
see some mentors in real
life, your perspective might change.
Suddenly you realize, Oh yeah,
this person also needs to
do a lot of different
things. And then the expectation
will be much, much different.
I think it's the exploration
of the nature of open
source project is just, you
don't get to see the
maintainer or the volunteer or
the contributors of the project
face to face. And that
becomes becomes challenging. Had you
ever thought about building a
company around Phantom JS when
it was at its peak
or how important do you
think it is to be
OSS versus to be F
O S S So there
are two aspects of that
first. I don't think I
have any business skills at
all. So if I think
of creating company, it might
be a big feller. And
second, I think that's a
huge different between working on
something as, as, as part
of your job and working
on something, because you find
it's fun. And I mentioned
about, you mentioned what rich
quid, but I think that
the emphasize here is if
you find, or if you
reach a point where maintaining
a print on an opensource
project is not fun and
stop doing that. Nobody forces
you to do that. So
you shouldn't become depressed because
you're, you fall into some
work. So there's that aspect
where I'm my feet. My
biggest fear is that if
this turned into a job,
then I will enjoy less
for me doing free and
open source software is kind
of therapeutic because I also
have a day job and
think of it. This is
a hobby, as opposed to
something that I do to
earn my living. There's a
great section on your GitHub
called AMA. I've never seen
anyone do this before. You've
made an ask me anything
and you're using GitHub issues
to do the answers to
the AMA. Did you have
this idea or is this
a unique idea? This is
not unique at all. I
think I'm probably the 200
person that does that. So
that is a fork of
the original AMA and a
lot of very well known
developer have done that. Hmm.
I like this idea. I
may do this myself. Please
do. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So
I'm on this one, you
have a great, a particular
AMA it's number, number 20
that says what are the
three most underrated overlooked open
source projects? Such a great
question. I don't know if
do you have that up
in front of you? If
not, I can read it
to you. I do. So
what are some of the,
your favorite underrated or overlooked
projects? So I put three
Pasco on the list, I
think, yes. If you remember
a turbo Pascal that that
is among others, the first
encounter to a lot of
teenagers back then to the
world of, and free Pascal
is the implementation of Pascoe
GPL implementation. And it has
been in the dolphin one
for 20 years, and there's
no indication that it is
going to stop anytime soon.
It supports everything from 16
bit dos. If you still
remember that to writing Pascal
for iOS, a 64 bit
arm, I, I find that
extremely fascinating these days, everyone
is really into JavaScript, but
for some of us who
had the experience of learning
basic Pascal and so on
and so forth, basketball is
still one of the easiest
barrier into programming. Yeah, it
is. I started in visual
basic three, but then immediately
went into Pascal. I did
turbo Pascal back in 1993,
I did Delphi. And as
you said, I think the
most interesting aspect of this
is that it supports 16
bit dos and 64 bit
arm, which is such an
interesting idea that this language,
you know, short of C,
it just kind of continues
and continues and continues. And
it's much easier to read
than some of the other
languages like lists that have,
have so much wide system.
And there's also a component
library and a full blown
IDE called Lazarus just the
other day. I needed to
create something I'm running windows
10 and then to create
a little utility with GUI.
And this is the fastest
I could imagine it just
launched Lazarus, put a bunch
of components, right? Some logic
and lo and behold it's
up and running in a
few minutes. Interesting. And which
sounds a lot like visual
basic, right? It's that four
GL experience. And you can
just drag some buttons and
have some button click events.
And if you want, you
can compel another version for
say Lennox, or as, Hmm.
Is this an application that
is kind of sneaking its
way under the radar? Why
don't, why isn't everyone talking
about free Pascal, maybe because
Pascal's not Popular anymore. I
know that as soon as
there was C and C
plus plus and Java, and
then shop, of course basketball
is considered old fashioned. I
don't know. Hmm. It's interesting.
Because yesterday I was hacking
into my Nintendo wi and
wanted to maybe write some
programs for it. And of
course, there you go, free
pascal.org. You can download runtimes
for the Nintendo Wii. I
didn't know that the social
supports intend to be. Now
you give me an idea.
Now you're going to think
about what you can move
or to the we who
knows are the next application
16 bit dos is supportive.
I'm sure it's a much
easier to support intern. Do
we as a platform? Yeah,
yeah, yeah. Okay. What's another
one. The other one is
the Apache traffic server. People
are probably familiar with Apache
HTP server and another four
pro surfers, such as engine
X ThreadFix are very, very
similar to engine X that
as a form of 41st
proxy, this is not usually
very well known for normal
developer because unless you work
on a server site, a
web WebEx or some technology,
then it's not very, very
well known. Again, it processes
terabit per second of traffic
at Yahoo. And I can't
remember another company sponsor of
this traffic surfer was originated
from Inktomi if you still
remember those days. Oh, wow.
Tommy was acquired by the,
by Yahoo and Yahoo decided,
no, let's just make this
a open source. So they
released the source code. In
fact, in some, in some
part of the search code,
you can still see the
reference to in Tommy Really.
And do you think that
there's still value in traffic
server in a world of
engine X? Oh yeah. It's
still being widely used. We
just don't know about it.
And now it's part of
the project for under a
Apache foundation And quietly handling
400 terabytes a day at
Yahoo. It supports HDP to
web socket, all the latest
technology, you name it. Interesting.
You know, the two things
that I finding in common
between free Pascal and Apache
traffic server are that their
websites look old fashion. I
wonder if people are likely
to stumble on an opensource
project, see a website that's
not bootstrap or not pretty
or not a fancy WordPress
theme. And they simply can't
Write it off. On the
other hand is functional. On
the other hand, it's functional.
See there, there is a
tee shirt right there that
we need to make And
that's last for more than
a decade. So it's a
true Testament to its survivability.
Do you think that people
in open source in 2017
are a little frivolous with
their, with their preferences, maybe
a little bit not. They're
interested in the new thing
and they run towards the
new thing rather than thinking
about the, the reliable Old
thing. It might be the
problem that we create ourselves
because we tend to glorify
new inefficient, new projects, new
library, new ways to do
things in all kinds of
forms, write a newsletter or
medium POS or Twitter or
whatsoever. But we sometimes forget
that we also need to
celebrate a long lasting project.
For instance, what if newsletters
start to mention, Hey, this
project's own sort of celebrate
this fourth birthday or a
fifth birthday start from small
number. And I think it
will draw more attention to
the fact that sometime there
are projects designed for, we
can fund their projects that
can survive years and years
of ups and downs. And
if we, if we look
at GitHub as the form
of the, the, the center
of social coding, there's no
way to distinguish within project
that I throw together. And
then I feel that, Oh,
someone might find it useful
and put it up there.
Versus I took some time
to design this years and
I've took some time to
come up with the proper
architecture. And I hope when
I released this is gonna
last for a hundred years,
there's no really label for
that. And therefore it's hard
for, for folks to understand
that some projects have different
threat of than other projects.
Do you think it's, do
you think that it's possible
to, to, to start a
project and say this one
is gonna be around for
a long time and this
one's not, or you're saying
that you just don't know,
you never have a way
of knowing when you try
something out. If it's going
to become the next Ruby
or the next node, everyone's
just out there coming up
with new ideas and maybe
it sticks. And maybe it
doesn't, It's hard to say
on one hand, as long
as there's the men, as
long as there's no need
for that project. And there
will be that then there's
the men tenants motivations. I
think that project is going
to last for awhile. I
observed a lot of projects,
projects, which are successful projects
with fail after just few
months and so on and
so forth. And I'll observe
that sometime, if you, if
you try not to be
ambitious on your first release,
if you try small and
then improve it, some parts
of the project and an
improvement of the part and
implement some of the features
and so on and so
forth, I think that's going
to last much longer than
you create the project, just
to feel full, fulfill your
adrenaline rush. In other words,
this is the, there's a
famous saying that you just
need to run faster than
a friend. If, if, if,
if you see some verus
trying to catch you, I
think rather than coming up
with the best possible technology
and with zero defects or
bugs on your first release,
if you improve your project,
one thing at a time,
one feature per week or
per month, whatever it is.
And you keep doing that
for years and years, you
are gone. You're going to
outrun everyone. Even if every
project was superior in the
very beginning, it doesn't really
matter. If you walk one
step at a time, eventually
you reach a very fair
far destination compared to someone
who just, you know, sprint
and then stop. So just
like in sport, that's a
huge difference between focusing on
endurance and focusing on speed.
For instance, I don't have
any endurance to physically fit
so I can run marathon.
But if you asked me
to play basketball or badminton,
we're where you need this.
High-speed for just a couple
of seconds. I could do
that. And after that, I
need to catch my breath.
Of course. So there's a
huge difference between people who
like to do one little
thing every week, every month
fascist someone who I just
want to, I have this
crazy thought. I want to
create this project. And in,
in, in a month, I'm
just going to wrap it
up, release it to the
open source community as a
gift, but then don't ask
me what any support whatsoever.
It sounds like you've got
a very positive attitude about
not only life, but code
in that you're saying continuous
improvement, small measurable improvement, always
moving forward with a attitude,
Not, not big giant sprints,
not Herculean efforts, just consistency.
Correct. And I think it's
important because when, when I
look at this projects, I
don't know if you remember
this, but a few weeks
ago, the main general for
Gillepsie has steps down after
30 years of maintain maintenance
of Gillepsie. That's unheard of.
And, and we need to
learn from, from this folks,
from this projects, because I
think it's this meant donors.
We serve deserve some respect
and we should start to
highlight them as opposed to
just new projects. And that
way, we also start to
give examples to new folks,
to open source that, yeah,
it's okay to do one
thing, one small thing every
week consistently for years and
years, and keep doing that
and keep getting new inspiration,
getting in touch with new
people or support new platforms
such as free Pascal. And
that's, that's not, that's not
a bad thing. That's, that's,
that's, that's also an honorable
thing. Yeah. The maintainer that
you're referring to is Roland
McGrath, who started working on
G lib C when he
was 15 in 1987 and
spent 30 years working on
that project. So not, not
starting as a professional, but
definitely ending as one. I'm
sure there are people in
your podcast listener, or even,
even their parents who are
not born yet when Roland
start mentioning Gillepsie It was
also a teenager in 1987.
I may have been reading
Roland's mailing lists cause we
were contemporaries, but definitely not
as, as accomplished. And I'm
sure, very sure that there
are people who are listening,
who were both very experienced
at that time. And who
also, as you said, were
not born yet. There's definitely
a lot of tools that
would have been created in
the last 30 years since
Roland started on G Lipsey.
You also call that a
third opensource project that is
a, a source code management
system. Yes. Fossil. And it
was born about the same
time when it was born.
One of the, one of
the crazy things about fossil
is that it's not only
version control. It's not only
like get where you store
it, but it's, it also
has Wiki and he should
track her and everything is
integrated. And the repository file
is one single file, which
is a database, a sequel,
a database. It is created
by a rechart tip, which
is also the author of
SQL line. And it's just
as powerful as skip, but
not very popular, Very popular,
a very simple looking modest
website with no real sense
of dates when it was
created, how long it is,
how old it is, but
it has some really interesting
and innovative features that I
frankly wish that we had
in, in get one of
the most impressive things about
fossil. You can get it@fossilhyphenscm.org
is that you can type
fossil UI and then the
name of your repository. And
suddenly it will pop up
a web browser with a
local web server. What a
clever idea. I think it
has the same feature, but
this is one thing where
a simple features makes a
huge difference. If you have
multiple repository, you keep, you
can keep typing fossil UI
for each repository, and it
will search for the Mo
the first unused TCP port
to serve that web web
server. So you can have
three different web browsing session
for us, a gooey interface
through two, three different fossil
repositories that is not easily
possible with get, Yeah, well
get, has a, an extension
called get web UI, but
I did not know if
get itself has this kind
of same kind of feature
it does. It does. Oh,
really? Do you know how
I can learn about that?
I would. I'm you're teaching
me something right now. I
think I tweeted about that
sometime. Good. But I forgot
about it. I will go
and look for your tweets.
What's amazing thing about fossil
is everything is in one
single self-contained excavate will file
and on windows, the, the
executable fuss to make a
bet, something really. So at
Taylor Swift song is larger
than, than all these features
back into fossil Or the
average animated GIF. Right. Interesting.
And it does make you
wonder though again, why these
kinds of features don't win,
you know, and I think
that the, the thing that
we're seeing about all of
the things that you're bringing
up are a certain sense
of, of modesty, of, of
simplicity, of a certain kind
of, of elegance. I'm also
curious, maybe it's also because
there's no scandal, there's no
story, there's no drama and
therefore it draws, it doesn't
draw any attention. Fossil does
exactly what it promised you
to do. And it doesn't
do more than this. No,
the main Turner is an
extremely reasonable gentlemen, so there's
no controversy or that kind
of thing. Interesting. I feel
like you've touched on that
a little bit. You're referring
to the actual maintainer of
the project rather than the
project itself. Are you thinking
that some projects we learn
more about because they have
big personalities behind them, or
There is some friction or
differences in opinion, strong opinions
that causes it to get
picked up by say something
like the Fox and appears
in some medium paws and
you know, all tweets and
that kind of thing. Yeah.
Interesting. And that's not necessarily
what you want in a
healthy project. Right? Another thing
that is interesting is that
some of these projects have
excellent, excellent documentation. I cannot
emphasize that enough. And therefore,
sometimes you don't need to
ask anyone about it or
you don't need to throw
a question to stack overflow
or melon lists and any
of the form. And therefore
people will encounter that less
compared to, Hey, this tool
is fantastic. I don't know
how to do it. Just
ask everyone and see if
someone comes up this sort
of solution. Yeah, it is.
That is the number one
thing that is so important
about open source projects is
good documentation. And so much
of the new stuff doesn't
have good documentation, Both in
the form of written documentation,
or even in a form
of verbal in case someone
give a talk or presentation
about that. I found that
that web server that you
were mentioning that was built
in to get it's called
Insta web. And I found
your tweet on it that
I'll include in the show
notes. It turns out the
reason that I don't know
about it is that it
only works on non windows
devices. So now you've given
me a task, I'm going
to go learn how to
make that work on windows.
We can use the windows
subsystem for Linux. That's a
great point. I bet you,
that would work out of
the box on that. So
now I'll try that after
we're done, that's fantastic, which
is get Insta web, My
favorite feature of windows 10.
Interesting. So you mentioned that
you have a windows machine.
Did you need that Linux
subsystem or were you a
windows person before I switched
to windows from Mac Stan?
Precisely because there is windows
subsystem for Linux. None that
I can't use windows, but
there are certain things that
makes it easier to work
on real Linux system. And
you found that it was
complete enough that it allowed
you to get done what
you needed to get done.
Yeah, absolutely. Although you and
others mentioned that running GUI
is not really supportive. It
works well and interesting in,
in cases where I need
it. Yeah. Yeah. The only
thing that I've found that
I wasn't able to do
with it was things like
Docker, where I, you know,
Docker server, I can run
Docker as a client, but
not more than that. So
Colonel level stuff, or low
level hardware things where I
wanted to talk to a
serial port, I wasn't able
to do, but 99% of
everything else, I've had no
issues with Completely agree. And
it's also fantastic because it's
a, the vanilla Linux is
not some other project that
you need to compile yourself
if the burner is available
and you know, that kind
of hassle. So what are
you doing at shape? I
am running the 50% engineering
team at shape for about
almost four years. Right now
we are specialized in preventing
automotive attacks on weapon APS
servers. And yeah, so far
we can't disclose our customers,
but so far we have
big customers in the verticals
of airlines, sufficient system retails.
And so on, The reason
that I ask is because
there's been a theme kind
of throughout our interview today,
which is the sense of,
of calmness of, of gently
moving forward. And on your
blog, you talked about the
concept of emotional resilience, particularly
when creating a small organization
or working on, on a
startup. Can you talk a
little bit about that? Yeah.
This is definitely my own.
I'm trying to document my
own experience as I try
to help shape. This is
my second startup. I used
to work for a center.
The, the maker of UX
did yes. If you still
remember that framework. And as
we, as we grow the
team, we try to identify
what makes a great team,
why certain team works or
certain composition of teams work
and certain sworn. And one
of the common theme is
that apparently grip teams have
this resilience built into them
so that it creates a
healthy organization. It can reject,
or it can defeat all
kind of intervention from external
or internal because it's resilience
enough to bounce back from
that moment and then start
to pursue its mission. When
you're in a tech startup
that has really high risk,
it can be really stressful
if you make mistakes, though,
and that can break people
down emotionally. Absolutely. We have
to be extremely careful about
that. We need to understand
why someone is working there.
What is their motivation? What
makes them tick? What makes
them successful? What are the
strengths? How can we harness
that? Strengths? Empathy is extremely
important here. And there's a
lot of discussion about engineers
who become senior enough and
then who become a manager
for the first time and
didn't know what to do.
And I think there's a
lot of, it's a lot
of movement out there these
days to start to educate
everyone who got into that
career path to understand what
it takes to be a,
a good manager, what is
takes to be a good
supervisor. I like the notion
where you judge a manager
by how much every individual's
reporting managers progress over time.
So I view managers as
a, as a teacher. If,
if all the students in
a class for the teachers
fail, then we give the
blame to the teacher. Of
course, That is a, that's
a very challenging thing to
translate your, your skills. If
you spend five or 10
years as an individual contributor,
and then suddenly you're being
judged, not on your contributions,
but on the sum of
your team's contributions. And I
think this is why I
believe there are many different
career path, an engineer who,
who has the aspiration to
continue to produce high quality
code. Maybe that's their strength.
If they don't have the
drive or the excitement and
the happiness of making other
people also as good as
them, it doesn't have to,
they don't need to be
forced to become a manager
supervisor. Otherwise you're going to
lose one good engineer and
you get, you're going to
get one bad manager. That's
not the William insufflation. Yeah,
absolutely. So how do you,
as the lead, try to
try to move the organization
towards emotional resilience? Is it
mostly by modeling that behavior?
Correct. So there's a lot
of investment in building the
relationship. I talk a lot
about the book called beyond
office politics. Despite the title,
the title carries the politics
as a word, there's nothing
bad about the book. In
fact, it's extremely powerful. It
describes why some people have
certain drive. And it's also
allows you to be able
to form a certain kind
of relation that makes that
organization healthy. There was also
another book dealing with conflict
resolution. I love crucial conversation
and verbal judo, and, and
I think investing in the
relationship between individuals, between, within
managers, those aren't the keys
to create a highly productive,
fast paced organization. How, how
important is this, this idea
of emotional health, as opposed
to technical health? I noticed
in your list of books
that you recommend, there's fewer
technical books than I would
expect. You have, you suggest
books on personal productivity and
office politics. And somehow that
surprised me. I think of
you as being a very
technical person. I think, I
think it's a burst into
one thing. So if you,
if you don't know something,
we can learn about it.
And it's really fast to
learn something technical because you
have a lot of resources
to do that. On the
other hand, things like how
to build a healthy organization.
It's not only exact science
and therefore to measure it.
It's very hard. And there's
also cultural differences that they
need to be aware of.
And therefore, if you see
that one organization successful with
certain recipe, it doesn't mean
that suddenly it works for
you. There's a lot of
tweaks and a lot of
customization necessary. And I think
it warrants a lot of
attention. We were born not
being able to speak any
language. Yes. In few years
we couldn't communicate with, with
our parents with various using
various language. So I don't
think there's a huge better
in learning new technology. I
think there's, there's undiscovered barriers
in building relationship and building
healthy organization. That's cool. I
really appreciate your, your positive
attitude. And I appreciate the
time that you've given me
today. Thank you for having
me. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes and
we'll see you again next
week. .